---
category: Student
title: Opening a Grade Inquiry
---


After receiving a grade you may want to ask the grader for more
information about how your work was graded.  You may want to ask for a
correction if an error was made in scoring your work.  The grade
inquiry feature allows you to have a discussion with the grader.

Note: If [system email notifications](../sysadmin/email_configuration)
are enabled, the student, all team members, and all relevant graders
will receive an email for each post in the grade inquiry system.


### Submitting an Initial Grade Inquiry

If your instructor has enabled grade inquiries for this assignment,
and the current date is in the window for submitting an inquiry, you
will see the "Open Grade Inquiry" button at the bottom of the page
beneath the TA/Instructor grade.

_Note: See also [Enabling Grade Inquiries](../instructor/grade_inquiry_instructor)_

![](/images/student_submit_grade_inquiry.PNG)


**TODO: LET'S REPLACE THE WORD 'Submit' with 'Open' ON THE WHITE BUTTON**


Once you click the white "Open Grade Inquiry" button, the following form will appear:

![](/images/grade_inquiry_form.PNG)

Write your grade inquiry in the text area and press the blue 'Submit
Grade Inquiry' button.  Be sure to review your class syllabus for any
specific instructions about course policies regarding grade inquiries
and regrade requests.  Your grade inquiry will then be under review.
You may submit additional followup posts to this grade inquiry if your grader
requests additional information.

![](/images/student_pending_grade_inquiry.PNG)


### Feedback on your Grade Inquiry

Once the TA has reviewed your inquiry and believes the situation is
resolved, they will change the status of your inquiry to *resolved*.

**TODO: INSERT IMAGE AFTER SHORT CONVERSATION & TA RESOLUTION: student
   posts asking about 2 things, TA response asking question, student
   replies with additional information, TA says ok I've given you 2
   points for blah, but not changed this other blah because blah, and
   inquiry shows as resolved**


See also [Resolving a Grade Inquiry](../grader/grade_inquiry_grader)


### Cancelling a Grade Inquiry

The student can cancel an unresolved grade inquiry by pressing the
white 'Cancel Grade Inquiry'.  The student and grader posts remain in
the system, but the status of the inquiry is set to *resolved*.


### Reopening a Grade Inquiry

The student can reopen the grade inquiry that is in the *resolved*
state.  This is useful if either the grader closed the inquiry
prematurely or the student cancelled the grade inquiry.

![](/images/student_reopen_grade_inquiry.PNG)

**TODO: REPLACE THIS IMAGE WITH A MORE TYPICAL EXAMPLE: student posts
   asking for more points, ta says 'no, this is not sufficient
   information to change the grade' (resolving inquiry), then student
   drafts a better request for more points (screenshot when typed in
   box, not yet submitted)**

**TODO: REVISE THESE INSTRUCTIONS** Simply press the blue 'Reopen
Grade inquiry without responding' button to change the status without
adding a message, or ...


You can also post a comment after your grade inquiry has been resolved
by pressing the white 'Send Information Without Reopening Grade
Inquiry' button


