---
category: Student
title: How Do I Login to Submitty?
permalink: /student
---

What is the Homework Submission Server URL for your course?  (Your
instructor should provide this information.)  Load this URL in your
favorite web browser.

![](/images/Login.png)

Have your login credentials ready.  (Again, your instructor should
provide this information.)  If you have trouble
authenticating/accessing the page, double check the URL and your
username and password, and contact the instructor, TA, or system
administrator as appropriate.

![](/images/Homepage.png)

Welcome to Submitty!  From this gateway page, you can access your
current courses and past courses (until they are archived and removed
from student view).  You can also review the email address associated
with your account and change your preferred name and, depending on the
server account configuration, your password.

### How Can I Access My Courses?

Find the course from the choices on the left side of the page and
click the button to enter the course and access course materials,
assignments, participate in the online discussion forum, view your
grades, and more.

If you don't see a specific course on the list, contact the instructor
or teaching staff for the course or system administrator for your
school or department.


### How Can I Change My Preferred Name?

If you would like to use a different first and/or last name than what
is listed on the registration roster, click the pencil next to your
name in the "About You" panel on the right of the screen.  Enter your
information and press "Submit".

![](/images/PreferredNameForm.png)

Your preferred name will be used on all webpages within Submitty: when
you participate in the online discussion forum, when you form teams
with your classmates, and when your TA or instructor grades your
assignments.  Your registration name will only be visible to your
instructors and only appears on the final grade sheet, next to your
preferred name, to ensure that your grade can be correctly entered to
your school's registration system.

### How Can I Change My Password?

If your school's installation of Submitty is configured with database
passwords, you'll see the "Change Password" text and a pencil icon at
the bottom of the "About You" panel, and you can change this password
through the web interface.  Click this pencil and enter a new
password.

![](/images/HomepagePassword.png)

![](/images/ChangePasswordForm.png)

If you don't see see this option on your account, it is likely this
password is served through a shared central password system used by
other servers at your school.  In this case, please refer to your
course syllabus and/or department or university sysadmin resources to
change or reset this password.



