---
title: Notifications & Email
category: Student
---

Submitty can be a busy place mid-semester, especially for students
taking multiple courses.  How can you keep track of new announcements,
relevant posts in the discussion forum, invitations to join a team for
the upcoming assignment, and the status of any grad inquiries you may
have submitted for past assignments?

Submitty will notify users of actions both via on-site messages and
also by email, if [configured on the server](../sysadmin/email_configuration).



### View On-Site Notications

If you have unviewed notifications you'll see a red box with a number
next to the "Notifications" option in the left toolbar.

![](/images/notifications/notification_collapsed.png){:width="450px"}
![](/images/notifications/notification_expanded.png){:width="285px"}

From the Notifications page you can see more information about each
notification, and follow a link to the complete message.

![](/images/notifications/notification_page.png)


### Notification Subscriptions

Users can modify their notification subscription for each Submitty
course from the website.  First click on "Notifications" from the left
sidebar for a specific course.  Then click on "Settings" in the upper
right corner.

![](/images/notifications/notification_settings_page.PNG)

On this page you will see settings for both notifications that are
shown on the Submitty website, and notifications that are delivered by
email.  In order to use email notification, the [system administrator
must be enabled email for your
server](../sysadmin/email_configuration).

The types of notifications are organized into categories by feature.


### Discussion Forum Settings

Below are the discussion forum settings shown to limited access graders
and students.

![](/images/notifications/forum_notification_settings.PNG)


Full access graders and instructors have given one additional option:

![](/images/notifications/forum_notification_settings_full.PNG)


### Grade Inquiry Settings

Gradeables that are manually graded by a TA or instructor can be
enabled to use the grade inquiry system allowing students to discuss
the grading with the staff through a private message system.

Notifications will be sent to the grader(s) who graded the specific
student and/or problem.  But all graders with access to view that
students submission will be able to view the grade inquiry discussion
and repond to the inquiry.

![](/images/notifications/grade_inquiry_notification_settings.PNG)


### Team Settings

For team assignments where students form their own teams,
notifications are generated for invitation, acceptance of invites, and
new assignment submissions by a teammate.

![](/images/notifications/team_notification_settings.PNG)


### Non-Optional Notifications

Note that some notification subscription checkboxes are gray.  These
checkboxes cannot be unchecked and users will always receive these
notifications.

![](/images/notifications/disabled_checkbox.PNG)


### Self Notifications

By default users will not be notified of their own actions on the
Submitty website.  However, some users may wish to be notified of
these actions (e.g., instructors wishing to confirm that email
announcements are working properly).

![](/images/notifications/self_notifications.png)

