---
title:  v21.01.01 > Autograding with Random Notebook Itempools
category: System Administrator > Installation Version Notes
---


Release [v21.01.01](https://github.com/Submitty/Submitty/releases/v21.01.01)
contains a significant refactor of the Submitty
autograder.  This refactor facilitiates automated grading of
random-per-student problem selection for
[Notebook gradeables](/instructor/assignment_configuration/notebook).


1. Automated grading for student submissions *prior* to installation
   of this release will still be viewable by students & graders.


2. Automated grading for gradeables created *after* installation of
   this release will require no changes.  You can re-use automated
   grading config.json files prepared prior to this release -- there
   are no changes to the configuration syntax.


3. If students make *new submissions* (after installation of this
   release) to *old gradeables* (created and built before installation
   of this release), autograding will break.  This is because the
   backend autograding infrastructure has been refactored -- additional
   parameters are needed at an internal autograding interface.

   Therefore, *old gradeables* (created before the installation of
   this release) that are still active (accepting *new submissions*)
   should be rebuilt.  This can be done by instructor users through
   the web interface by clicking on the pencil icon for that
   gradeable, going to the Submissions/Autograding tab and clicking
   "Rebuild Gradeable".  Alternatively, the autograding configuration
   can be rebuilt through the command line for a single assignment or
   an entire course.  See also
   [Build/Debug all Grading Configurations](/instructor/create_edit_gradeable#builddebug-all-grading-configurations).

