---
category: Grader -- Rubric Grading
title: Rubric Components and Common Marks
---

![](/images/ta_grading/rubric_grading_panels_1.png)

The overall rubric is prepared by the instructor (or head TA).  The
rubric is divided into one or more *components*, each with a defined
maximum score.  In the example above the **Read Me** component is
worth 2 points, and the **Coding Style** component is worth 5 points.

When the grader clicks on a component it will expand, allowing
selection of one or more *common marks* to grade the student.  If the
component has be defined to "Grade by Counting Up" points, the
student's initial score will be zero, and all or most available marks
will be positive.  If the component has been defined to "Grade by
"Counting Down" points (as shown above), the student's initial score
will be zero, and all or most available marks will be negative.


## Common Mark Editing 

All graders may *edit* the *common marks* available for a specific
component during grading *or even after grading has finished*!  They
may add a new mark by specifying the points and message text.  Or they
may change the points and/or message text of an existing mark.  *Note:
All edits to points or text will be applied to all students who were
previously given this mark!*


![](/images/ta_grading/rubric_grading_edit_rubric.png)


This interface also allows the specification of which common marks
will be shown to all students, even if that mark was not selected in
the grading their assignment.  These marks are highlighted with a blue
background.  In particular, when a component is "Grade by Counting
Up", it is valuable to show all positive marks to the student, so they
can use the feedback to learn what was missing from their work, and
what they should improve upon for next time.


## Who got this Common Mark?

During grading, it can be helpful to revisit the grades of other
students who were given a specific mark.  Click on the small icon with
3 people on the right of the mark message text to view the popup
below, which includes quick links to the rubric grading interface for
each of those students (or teams).

![](/images/ta_grading/rubric_grading_who_got_mark.png)

