---
category: Student
title: Submission
---

After selecting the appropriate assignment, you should prepare their
work for submission.  Carefully read both the course syllabus & and any
specific instructions for this assignment.  Your instructor has
configured the submission site with one or submission areas.  You may:

* "Drag and drop" one or more files into each submission area, or
* Click on a submission area, which will bring up a file browser
   allowing you to select one or more files for upload.

If you choose a .zip file, the files within this .zip file will be
extracted on submission.  If your .zip file contains one or more
folders/directories, this folder/directory structure will be
preserved.

Alternatively, if you instructor has configured this assignment to
receive files via version control (SVN), the submission interface will
consist of a single button, allowing you to indicate that the system
should grab your most recent materials from the repository for
grading.


![](/images/Submission_Files.png)


As you collect files for submission, if you make a mistake you may
remove files by clicking on the trashcan icon.  Or you may press
"Clear" to remove all files.  Or, if you have already submitted to
this assignment, you may press "Get Most Recent Files" to initialize
the submission with those materials.  You can then delete or add new
files.

Once you have selected all necessary files, press "Submit".

Then wait patiently for your assignment to be graded.  The page will
automatically refresh when grading is complete.  If the assignment is
computationally intensive or if the server is busy grading your
classmates' work, you may need to wait longer.


![](/images/Submission_Result_Buggy.png)

If you find an error or omission with your submission, you can
repeat the steps above to upload a new version of the code.



