---
title: Grade Override
category: Instructor
---

### Purpose and Sample Use Cases

There are several instances in grading a large class where the
instructor would like to override the grade for a single student on a
specific gradeable.  For example:

* **Makeup Exam** Most of the students in the course sit for the [same
    exam on paper, which is scanned and graded](bulk_pdf_upload) using
    a detailed manual grading rubric.  One student is unable to make
    the original exam time and instead takes a makeup exam with
    different problems.  This makeup exam is graded outside of
    Submitty, with a completely different rubric.  The instructor can
    use Grade Override to bypass the rubric used for the assignment
    and simply enter the total score to be used in [Rainbow
    Grades](rainbow_grades).

* **Plagiarism** If it is determined that a student submission is in
    violation of the university academic integrity policy, the Grade
    Override may be used to apply the appropriate penalty, either a
    reduction or zeroing of the grade for the specific assignment.


* **Other One-off Bonus or Penalty Grades** If extenuating
    circumstances prevent a student from submitting their work through
    the normal interface in a timely manner, the instructor may need
    to apply a special bonus or penalty to the student outside of the
    normal grading rubric.  The override system allows the instructor
    to enter the final grade for this assignment regardless of
    submission status (unsubmitted, on-time, late).



### Instructor View: How to Override a Grade 

An instructor starts by selecting "Grade Override" from the left side bar.

![](/images/OverrideEmpty.png) 

Next, select the specific gradeable from the drop down menu of all
gradeables in the course, enter the student user id, new total score
for that assignment, and optionally a short note explaining why the
grade is overridden.  Press Submit.

![](/images/OverrideEntered.png)

The instructor can add multiple students for the same gradeable.  Be sure to
review all overridden grades for this gradeable in the summary table
at the bottom of the page.  You can delete a row in this table by
pressing the trashcan icon.  You may review the overridden grades for
a different gradeable by selecting it from the list and pressing
"Apply Changes".

![](/images/OverrideMultipleOther.png)

### Student View

When a student clicks on the Submission and View Grade page for a
gradeable that has been overridden, they will see the yellow banner
below.  They are still able to review their submitted materials (if
any) and detailed rubric manual grading feedback (if any).  The
overridden score will be visible only from [Rainbow
Grades](rainbow_grades).

![](/images/studentOverriden.png)


### Grader View

When a grader interacts with the grading details page for a gradeable
that has overridden grades for one or more students, the button from
the index page will be labeled "Overridden".

![](/images/TAOverriden1.png)

If the grader selects the grading page for a student that has been
overridden the page is highlighted in yellow as an alert.  The grader
may still view all submitted materials and may still enter scores and
feedback in the "Grading Rubric" panel.  The scores and feedback will
be available to the student (see above).  But these scores will not be
used in calculating the students overall course grade in [Rainbow
Grades](rainbow_grades).

![](/images/TAOverriden2.png)